Pork and Peanut Dragon Noodles



¼ C Chili Garlic Sauce 

¼ C Soy Sauce

¼ C brown sugar

½ lb. ground/diced pork

6 oz. ramen noodles (or alt light noodle)

3 green onions, sliced

¼ C unsalted peanuts, chopped

Fresh greens to taste (broccoli, beans, cilantro, onion)



Combine chili sauce, soy and brown sugar in bowl

Brown pork in skillet, add nuts and sauce, simmer till reduced by half

Add cooked noodles to sauce and toss with veggies until everything is combined and coated



Poor Man’s Burrito Bowls



6 C cooked rice

2 C black beans

½ t cumin

¼ t garlic powder

Salt to taste

2 C salsa

6oz shredded Cheese

1 bunch scallions

Addt’l veggies/toppings to taste (toms, cilantro, avocado, dressings, peppers)



Cook rice according to instructions. While rice is cooking heat black beans in a small saucepan along with cumin, garlic powder and salt (if needed). Slice green onions and shred cheese

Build bowls w/ 1c cooked rice, 1/3 c beans, 1/3 c salsa, 1 oz. cheese, top as desired



Risotto

https://www.brit.co/microwave-risotto/ (if you just want to microwave it)

2T butter

½ onion finely chopped

2 cloves garlic

1 C arborio rice

2 C broth

½ C white wine

Alt:

Shrooms

Thyme

Parmesan

Alt:

Bacon, cooked and crumbled

Kale

Shrooms

Parmesan



Add butter and onions to large skillet and cook until onions start to brown

Add broth and rice, reduce heat, cover and stir intermittently until rice is cooked

Add wine and shrooms and reduce 

Add cooked bacon and kale, mix in and cook for additional couple minutes and then serve with grated parmesan (or add thyme and parm for alt 1)



Two Minute Thai Peanut Noodles 



1 pack ramen noodles (chicken or beef)

2T peanut butter

1t garlic chili sauce

1T chopped peanuts

Cooked chicken to taste

Chopped green onions/veggies to taste(peppers, onion, broccoli, beans)



Prep ramen noodles per package

Add peanut butter and garlic chili sauce

Drain all but about ¼ C liquid from noodles

Stir together and toss with other ingredients



Chili

1 lb. stew meat

4 links, spicy Italian sausage

2 T olive oil, divided

1 med onion onion, chopped

3 cloves garlic, minced

2 t beef bouillon 

1C boiling water

1 can tomato paste

3 T chili powder

2 T brown sugar

2 T woosh

2t cumin

2t red pepper flakes

1t salt

3 cans diced tomato

2 cans pinto beans or great northern beans



Brown beef and sausage in 1T oil, drain and add to slow cooker. Sautee onion and garlic in remaining oil until tender, then transfer to cooker. In a separate bowl, dissolve the bouillon in water. Stir in tomato paste, sugar, woosh and seasonings until blended, then add to slow cooker. Add tomatoes and beans, then stir and cook on high for 6-8 hrs until beef is tender.  Serve w/ cheese if desired.

Cashew Chicken Casserole

1lb. chicken breast, cooked

1 med. Onion, chopped

2C frozen broccoli

1 ¾ C boiling water

1C uncooked rice

6 oz. mushrooms

1T chicken bouillon

1t ground ginger

¾ C cashews, divided

In large bowl, combine first nine ingredients. Transfer to baking dish. Cover and bake at 375F for 45-55 min. Stir in ½ C cashews, sprinkle with remaining cashews. 

Hot Chicken Salad

2 ½ C diced cooked chicken

2C cooked rice

1C diced celery

1C sliced fresh shrooms

1 can sliced water chestnuts, drained

1t minced onion

1t Lemon Juice

½ t crushed rosemary

¼ t pepper

¾ C mayo

1 can cream of chicken

Topping:

½ C breadcrumbs

½ C slivered almonds

3T butter

In large bowl, combine the first nine ingredients. In separate bowl, combine mayo and soup. Pour into large bowl and stir till combined. Spoon into baking dish. In a small skillet, brown breadcrumbs, almond in butter. Bake uncovered at 350F for 30-335 minutes.  

Taco Casserole

1lb. ground beef

¼ C chopped onion

¼ C bell pepper

1 packet, taco seasoning

½ C water

1C crushed tortilla chips

1 can refried beans

1C shredded cheddar cheese



Brown beef, onion and pepper in skillet, drain. Stir in taco seasoning and water. Cook for 3 min, until thickened, set aside. Place chips in greased square baking dish. In small bowl, stir refried beans; spread over chips. Top with beef mixture and cheese.  Bake at 375F for 15-20 min. Top w/ lettuce, tomatoes. Serve w/ sour cream.

Steak and Mushroom Pot Pie



Filling



2T olive oil

1 ½ lb beef (stew meat) 

3 cups beef bouillon

1t rosemary, thyme, oregano, tarragon

12 oz. cremini mushrooms stems trimmed, caps quartered

2 carrots halved and thinly sliced

2 celery ribs thinly sliced 

2 cloves garlic 

1 large yellow onion, finely diced

1 celery root, peeled and finely diced 

½ C butter

½ C flour

Salt and pepper



Heat 1T oil, then add beef and brown for 3 minutes, browning on all sides.  Add broth and herbs, then cover, lower heat and simmer for 15 minutes.  In separate pan, heat remaining oil, then add mushrooms, carrots, celery, garlic, onion, and celery root. Cook, stirring frequently, for 10 minutes, or until the vegetables are almost tender. Cover and lower the heat to medium, cooking for 5-7 minutes. Add the butter, stirring mixture until melted, then add the flour until well blended, cooking for 4-5 minutes, stirring frequently.  Add the beef broth mix and stir until smooth. Cook for 5 minutes until thickened and add salt and pepper to taste. 



Biscuit Crust



2C flour

1T baking powder

½ t salt

1/3 C butter

1C buttermilk

1C mashed roasted sweet potato



Preheat oven to 400F. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in bowl. Add butter and cut into the mixture using a pastry blender until a fine meal forms. Mix buttermilk and sweet potato and pour the wet mixture over the flour mix until incorporated. Pour the pot pie filling into a shallow baking dish. Drop the dough by rounded tablespoons over the filling. The dough should almost cover the filling entirely. Bake for 35 minutes or until the centre is bubbly and the crust is lightly browned.

Smashed Sweet Potatoes



3 large sweet potatoes, peeled and cut into 2 inch chunks

¼ C brown sugar

¼ C maple syrup

8 T butter cut into cubes

½ C heavy cream

½ t salt and pepper



Preheat oven to 400F. In a baking dish, combine sweet potatoes, brown sugar, maple syrup, and butter and cover with foil. Back for 90 minutes or until potatoes are tender. Transfer to large bowl, reserving leftover liquid. Using immersion blender, beat potatoes, adding a little reserved liquid until smooth. Add cream, salt and pepper and mix until the potatoes are fluffy.  

Pistachio Pork Schnitzel with Pancetta Pan Gravy



Schnitzel

¾ C pistachios

¾ C panko

½ t salt

½ t pepper

2 eggs

4 pork chops, ¼ inch thick 

2T olive oil

2T canola oil



Combine the pistachios, panko, salt, and pepper and process in a food processor for 8-10 seconds until pistachios are finely chopped, but not ground. Transfer the mix to a plate.  Whisk eggs in a shallow bowl, then coat pork with nut mix and fry.  Serve with pancetta pan gravy. 



Gravy



1T olive oil

4oz pancetta, diced

8oz mushroom sliced 

2T butter

2T flour

1 ½ C chicken bouillon

Black pepper



Add pancetta to hot oil in skillet and cook until it starts to crisp. Add shrooms and cook for 4-5 minutes, stirring frequently until tender. Add butter to pan and when melted, stir in flour and cook for additional minute stirring constantly. Add chicken broth and pepper and cook for 3-4 minutes, stirring until thickened. 





Southern Poutine



18 new potatoes

2T olive oil

1C diced onions

¼ t salt

¼ t pepper

2 ½ C Double Sausage Gravy

½ C cooked, diced bacon

1 ½ C shredded cheddar

Eggs



Boil potatoes for 20 minutes, drain, and place in ice water to cool. Cut potatoes into quarters. Add oil to skillet, add potatoes and cook for 4-5 minutes, stirring often until they start to brown. Add onion and season with salt and pepper and cook till browned. Preheat oven broiler. Spoon potato mixture on plate and cover with gravy, crumbled bacon and cheese. Broil for 1-2 min until cheese is melted. Top with fried egg.

Double Sausage Gravy



8oz breakfast sausage

2t butter

3T flour

3C half and half

½ t salt

½ t pepper



Brown sausage in skillet, then add butter and melt.  Add flour and cook for 4-5 min, stirring constantly. Stir in half and half and cook, stirring for 8-10 minutes, until thick. Add salt and pepper to taste. 

Stroganoff Y’all



1 ½ lb pork tenderloin, cubed

¼ t salt

¼ t pepper

1T oil and garlic

Cremini Mushroom Shallot Ragu

Goat Cheese Basil Grits

½ C sour cream

Jalapeno Cilantro Pesto



Toss the pork with salt and pepper. Heat garlic and oil in a large skillet, then add pork and cook for about 3 min until browned. Add cremini mushroom shallot ragu, lower the heat and simmer until pork is cooked through.  

Cremini Mushroom Shallot Ragu



3T olive oil

½ lb cremini mushrooms, halved

4 large shallots, sliced

4 cloves garlic, sliced

1 ½ C beef gravy (from store)

½ C beef bouillon

1t rosemary

½ t thyme

¼ t salt and pepper



Heat oil in large skillet, then add mushrooms and shallots and sauté for 10 minutes, or until veggies are tender. Add garlic and saute for additional minute. Add beef gravy, broth, rosemary, thyme, salt and pepper, and bring to a boil. Then lower heat and simmer for 10 minutes.  

Goat Cheese Basil Grits



3 C water

1t salt

1 ¼ C quick cooking grits

1T butter

2T cream

4oz goat cheese



In saucepan, bring water and salt to a boil. Stir in grits and butter and bring back to a boil. Add cream and decrease the heat to low, simmering until thick. Remove from heat and whisk in the goat cheese until melted.  

Jalapeno Cilantro Pesto



2/3 C olive oil

3T lemon juice 

1 bunch cilantro, stems removed

1/3 C roasted almonds

3 cloves garlic

1 poblano pepper, seeded and chopped

1 jalapeno, seeded and chopped

¼ t salt and pepper



Combine oil, juice, cilantro, almonds, garlic, poblano, jalapeno, salt and pepper in a blender and process until mixture is smooth. 

 Basil Cashew Pesto



½ C fresh basil

1/3 C roasted cashews 

2 cloves garlic

1T lemon juice

Salt and pepper

1/3 C olive oil



Combine basil, cashews, garlic, juice, salt and pepper in a food processor. Drizzle the olive oil into the mixture and blend until smooth. Serve immediately or refrigerate up to 1 week. 

Blackened Chicken Pot Pie 



4 chicken breasts

¼ C plus 2T canola oil

4T blackening spice

2 large onions

8 celery ribs, chopped

3 red potatoes

4 large carrots peeled and chopped

2 large poblano peppers

2/3 C flour

2C chicken stock

¾ C coconut milk

2T minced hot cherry peppers

2T woosh

2t thyme

1 ¼ t salt

1t pepper

Pie Dough



Rub chicken breasts with 2T canola oil. Coat the breasts with the spice mixture. Place chicken in hot skillet and cook quickly 4-5 min per side. Remove the chicken and transfer to cool. Preheat oven to 400F. Heat remaining oil to in pan, then add the veggies and cook, stirring occasionally for 15-20 min. until the poblano is tender. Decrease heat to medium and stir in the flour until combined. Add chicken stock, coconut milk, cherry peppers, woosh, thyme, salt, and pepper and cook for 10 minutes until mixture is thickened. Cut the chicken into 1” chunks and add to mix along with any chicken juices. Mix well until combined. 

Butter 2 pie pans. Roll out 4 pie crusts. Place a crust in each pan, then pour the mix into the pans and top with another round of dough. Crimp the edges together and bake for 45 to 50 minutes at 400F for 45-50 Min. 



Blackening Spice



1T sugar

1T salt

1t pepper

1t cayenne pepper

1t paprika

1t powdered onion

1t powdered garlic

1t thyme

½ t oregano



Combine all ingredients in a bowl. 



Pie Dough 

2 ½ C flour

1t salt

1t sugar

1C cold butter, cut into pieces

½ C ice water

In food processor, combine the flour, salt, and sugar. Add the butter and pulse until the mixture resembles coarse meal, about 10 seconds. Add the ice water in a slow stream, pulsing the mixture no more than 30 seconds until it begins to form a ball. Remove the dough from the processor and divide into 2 pieces. Wrap each piece in plastic wrap and flatten. Refrigerate at least 1 hour.  When ready to use, roll out each piece on a floured surface using a rolling pin. Makes 2 pie crusts. 

Jewish Style Brisket



1t olive oil 

2T minced garlic

1t thyme

1t kosher salt

4-5 lb. brisket

2 C chopped onion

4 large carrots, peeled and sliced

3 bay leaves

3 T tomato paste

1 C beef broth

1 can crushed tomatoes

1C red wine



Mix oil, garlic, thyme, salt and pepper in small bowl, then rub all over brisket.  Place brisket in crock pot fat side up. Toss in onion, carrots and bay leaves. Blend tomato paste into broth and pour into pot. Then add tomatoes and red wine. Cook at least 4 hours on high heat, until meat is tender. 



Non-Kosher Addition



¼ C heavy cream

½ C sour cream

3T horseradish, drained

1T Dijon mustard

1T minced onion

Juice of ½ a lemon

Salt and pepper to taste



Place all ingredients through the lemon juice in a small bowl and stir to blend. Taste and add salt and pepper as needed. 

Beef Barley Soup



1T olive oil

½ C chopped onion

½ C chopped carrot

½ C pearl barley

2C beef broth

2C liquid from brisket

2C chopped leftover brisket



Heat oil in saucepan over med-high heat, then add onions and carrots and cook until slightly softened. Add the barley and cook an additional 2 minutes. Add the beef broth, liquid and 2 cups of water. Partially cover and let liquid come to a simmer. Reduce heat and let simmer until barley is tender, 30-35 minutes.  Increase heat to high, add chopped brisket and let come to simmer uncovered.  Reduce to med-low and let simmer 10 minutes. 

Braised Beef Brisket



2 10.5 oz cans of beef consommé (not broth!)

1 ½ C soy sauce

Juice of 2 lemons

5 garlic cloves 

1T liquid smoke

7-10 lb. brisket, untrimmed. 



In 9x15 pan, combine consommé and soy sauce, then add lemon juice. Then add garlic and liquid smoke and mix. Place the brisket in the pan, fat side up. Ladle some liquid on top then cover tightly with foil and place in fridge for 24-48 hours to marinate. Then place brisket and liquid (fat side up) in crock pot and cook at least 40 min/lb (start checking). To test, place two forks in and pull in separate directions. If it doesn’t come apart easily, cook for additional half an hour.  

Pigs in a Blanket



1lb. mini sausages

1/3 C shredded parmesan

1 sheet frozen puff pastry

1 lg. egg



Preheat oven to 400F and grease a pan. Lightly flour counter and place thawed pastry on top in 3 equal pieces. Roll out until it is slightly thinner, then cut into 1”x3” strips. Beat egg and add 2t water in a bowl. Roll sausage in strip and seal, placing them 1” apart on baking tray.  Brush the tops with egg wash and sprinkle parmesan on top. Bake for 20 min, or until puffed and golden brown. 



Kielbasa Skillet



3-4 large russet potatoes chopped into bite-size cubes

1-2 onions chopped

1 pepper diced

1T olive oil

¾ C chicken broth

2T woosh

1 ½ lbs. kielbasa sliced



Microwave the chopped potatoes for 5 min before adding to skillet. Then cook the onions and potatoes in oil until potatoes are golden. Add broth and woosh and cook until potatoes are tender.  Toss in kielbasa and peppers and cook until heated through.  



Golden Onion Pasta



1 C butter, cut into pieces

1 ¾ lbs sweet onions, thinly sliced 

2t sugar

1 ½ t salt

1 ¾ cups heavy cream



Melt the butter, then add onions, sugar, and salt and caramelise ~30 minutes. Stir in cream and simmer briefly until absorbed by onions and slightly thickened. Serve with pepper and sprinkled parmesan cheese. 



Classic Basil Pesto



¾ C pine nuts

3 C packed stemmed fresh basil leaves

1 ½ C olive oil

1 cup grated parmesan cheese

4 medium garlic cloves



Spread pine nuts on a baking sheet and toast them at 450F about 10 minutes until golden brown. Put all ingredients in food processor. Pulse briefly, pad down, then process continuously until sauce is smooth.  If too thick, pulse in a little hot water. Toss with cooked pasta as soon as it’s drained. 



Spinach-Walnut Pesto



1 ¾ C packed stemmed and ribbed spinach leaves, thoroughly washed

1C olive oil

1C grated parmesan cheese

1C shelled walnut pieces

2 med garlic cloves

2T lemon juice

¼ t salt



Follow instructions of Classic Pesto.

Parsley-Hazelnut Pesto



¾ C hazelnuts

1 ¾ C packed fresh parsley leaves 

½ C plus 2T walnut oil

½ C plus 2T peanut or corn oil

1 ¾ C grated parmesan cheese 

2 med garlic cloves



Brown hazelnuts on baking sheet at 400F for 10-15 minutes, then follow Classic Pesto instructions

Sun-Dried Tomato Pesto



3 C packed, drained sun-dried tomatoes

1 ½ C olive oil (can sub with oil from tomatoes)

1 C plus 2T grated parmesan cheese

¾ C walnuts

½ C packed fresh parsley leaves

3 garlic cloves



Follow instructions of classic pesto.

Spicy Sausage Pasta



3T olive oil 

4 garlic cloves

3 medium onions, finely chopped

2 medium bell peppers, stemmed, seeded and cut into ¼” pieces

1lb spicy sausage

1C dry red wine

28oz diced tomatoes (canned) 

2T tomato paste

1 ½T dried oregano

1T dried basil

1 ½ t crushed pepper flakes

½ t salt



Sauté onions, garlic, peppers in oil until tender.  Crumble in the sausage and saute until browned, about 10 minutes. Carefully pour off the fat and add the wine. Stir dissolving deposits on the bottom. Add tomatoes and stir in remaining ingredients. Gently boil until thick, 15-20 minutes. Serve over spaghetti, linguini, or shells





Beef Bourguignon



6oz Bacon

1T oil

3lbs stew meat, cubed

1 carrot, sliced

1 onion, sliced

1t salt

¼ t pepper

2T flour

3C red wine (merlot, burgundy)

2-3 C beef bouillon

2 cloves garlic

½ t thyme

1 bay leaf, crumbled

18-24 pearl onions or 1 large onion, brown-braised

1lb quartered fresh mushrooms sautéed in butter and oil



Slice bacon and simmer in 1 ½ quarts of water for 10 minutes.  Drain and dry.  Preheat oven to 450F. Sautee bacon in oil over med heat until browned, then remove via slotted spoon.  Reheat the remaining fat until almost smoking before sautéing the beef. Dry the beef in paper towels and drop a few pieces at a time, then place with bacon.  In the same fat, brown the carrot and onion, then pour out the fat.  Return beef and bacon to the pan and toss with salt and pepper, then sprinkle with the flour and toss to coat lightly.  Place in casserole dish and put in oven for 4 minutes.  Remove and toss, then place in oven again for additional 4 minutes.  Remove from oven and reduce heat to 325F.  In saucepan on stove, simmer wine, tomato paste, garlic and herbs until reduced, then pour over the meat.  If needs more liquid (meat should be barely covered) add beef bouillon as needed.  Cover casserole and put in oven for 2 ½ - 3 hours. Meat is be done when a fork pierces it easily.   While the beef is cooking, prepare the onions and mushrooms, set aside until ready. When meat is tender, pour contents into a cullender over a saucepan.  Wipe out the casserole dish and return the beef and bacon to it.  Distribute the cooked onions and mushrooms over the meat.  Skim the fat off the sauce, then simmer for 10-15 minutes until sauce is reduced, thick enough to coat a spoon lightly.  Pour the sauce over the meat and vegetables.  Serve with boiled buttered potatoes, rice, or buttered noodles.  



Brown-Braised Onions



 18-24 pearl onions or 1 large onion chopped into 1-inch chunks 

1 ½ T butter

1 ½ T oil

½ C beef bouillon

½ bay leaf, crumbled

¼ t thyme



Bring oil and butter to bubble in skillet, then add onion and sauté about 10 minutes until browned. Then pour in liquid, season w/ salt and pepper and add the herbs.  Cover and simmer for 40-50 minutes until the onions are tender and liquid has evaporated. 



Cashew Chicken



12oz chicken cut into small cubes

3t corn starch, divided

½ t salt

Dash of white pepper

2T hoisin sauce

1t rice wine or sherry

1t sugar

1t soy sauce

1t dark sesame oil

2t water

2T oil, divided

1 clove garlic, minced

1t peeled and minced fresh ginger

1 small onion cut into ¼“cubes

½ C roasted cashews

½ C chicken stock



Toss the chicken with 1t of cornstarch, salt and pepper in small bowl. Cover and refrigerate for 10 minutes. In a small bowl, mix the remaining 2t of cornstarch with the hoisin sauce, rice wine or sherry, sugar, soy sauce, sesame oil, and water, then set aside. Heat 1T of the oil in a wok 





Buffalo-Spiced Crispy Chicken



8oz broccoli florets (or sub other greens/bacon wrapped spagarus)

2 scallions

4T sour cream

1½t Franks seasoning blend

¼ C panko

¼ C cheese

3T butter

12oz chicken

12oz potatoes

2t honey



Preheat oven to 425F, prep veggies.  Combine half the sour cream, ½t Franks, and a big pinch of salt.  Stir in water until drizzly consistency in a small bowl.  In a separate bowl, combine half the butter (melted), panko, cheese, remaining Franks, and large pinches of salt and pepper.  Boil potatoes and make mash with remaining sour cream and butter, ½ C liquid from potatoes, scallions, garlic salt and pepper.  Pat the chicken dry and season with salt and pepper, then top with the panko mixture.  Bake w/ broccoli (season with drizzle of oil, salt and pepper) for 18-22 min until broccoli is cooked and the chicken is cooked through.  Toss broccoli w/ 1T butter when removed, drizzle chicken with sauce and honey.  





Mexicali Pie



16oz ground beef

2-3t Chili Powder

1t tabasco 

½ C chopped onion

½ C bell pepper

1 ½ C corn

1 C salsa

¾ C shredded cheese

1 C crushed corn chips 



Preheat oven to 350F*.  In a large skillet, brown the meat, chili powder, tabasco and onions. Add pepper and cook till warm.  Add corn, salsa, cheese and pepper to taste.  Put in 9x9 pan, cover with crushed chips and bake 30 min.  Cool before serving.  

*Tastes just as good in the pan – cook an additional 5-10 minutes and top with corn chips instead of baking

